So props are fun.
There is one other kind of situation
that we didn't really talk about,
which I'm gonna challenge you with.
Which is, so we got props,
some of them could be static values,
some of them could be objects or
arrays, and we'll see those over time.
We saw what to do with an event handler.
There's one more other common prop, right?
I have a list of all the other props
you could ever see as well, but
there's one that you might end up with,
which is what do you do about children?
That is usually the first TypeScript
going great in React, I love this.
This is about never writing
JavaScript again, and
the first time you need to type, it'd be
like, that's another React component.
You're like,
I think I'm just gonna write JavaScript.
So what I have for
you is kind of a little playground, and
in here we've got,
open this in Safari in a second,
or it's a repo to the enclone.
My security settings are turning
off syntax, highlighting in edge.
But we have one where it's one child,
it's a string cuz children of
an HTML element could be a string,
nothing, another HTML element,
right, a bunch of stuff,
right, and so
we need to kind of figure that out.
And so right now this isn't any, and
your job is, here are a bunch of options,
I thought seemed plausible
looking at reacts types.
What I would challenge you
to do is try these out and
see where the red squigglys
come to haunt you, right?
And when you have the wrong answer,
a red squiggly will let you know,
cuz most of the cases are covered in here.
And we will figure out what the correct
type of a given child component should be.
All right, spend five minutes,
and we will reconvene.
We'll look at the the answer
sheet in a second.
But let's try these all out and kinda see
what just our editor tells us, right?
Let's try JSX element.
And you can see that I get yelled at for
anything that has more than
one element in it, right.
That makes sense.
But we saw before, okay,
JSX element was my first go-to,
because before we hovered over name badge,
we saw JSX element, right,
which is true except it
could be more than one.
And so the syntax for an array,
depending on where your cursor is.
And this blows up in a different
way because it's like,
cool, it can be more than one JSX element,
which makes this box very happy.
But you know what's not a JSX element?
A string, so you could continue
to play this game forever.
You say, or a string, and I think
if it has two strings at that point
you get yelled at, but
there's really no intersection there.
These two at the bottom,
I'm not even gonna waste your time with.
They're fake answers.
Those are actually utility methods built
into React for mapping over children,
those aren't even types.
The correct answer here
is React.React(Node).
And I will show you a fun thing to make
you never have to really think about
this again.
You pass it in, everything is happy and
wonderful and good in the world.
The other thing that you can do,
so other than this,
this doesn't really take any
props other than children.
So what I can do in this case is
there's actually one built into React,
Called props with children, which uses
the syntax for taking it generic and
says, this would be
the rest of your props.
This would be name badge props or
greeting props or whatever.
And it adds, hey, this could have
children that are either React node or
undefined, right.
And you can kind of use that as built in
there andyou just have fun with that.
You'll get like that typing for
you as well.
But the thing I would love to be
able to do is also, I have this idea
of a style prop, right, cuz I do
get cool autocomplete here as well.
If you've learned anything
about me right now,it's that I
like especially all this stuf,
having it filled in for me.
And a lot of times people
will just be string, so
I can still go rogue here, but
I can put these properties in.
And maybe I want my wrapper component
to also be able to take a style
element that it passes through, but well,
I don't really just want to say it's
an object or anything along those lines.
And again, we can kind of figure
out by introspecting that.
React does have this type, and at any
point if you get interested in these you
can always Command click and
go through and actually see the types.
It's an experience that
everyone should go through, but
over time it's kind of
like seeing the matrix.
But we can take this and
we can basically say that, okay,
we do wanna actually take a style tag.
And this is kind of useful too, depending
on how complicated your component is.
If you wanna pass different styles for
the outer component and stuff like that,
you can actually then be able to use
this property in multiple places, right?
And now, this style will have all
the same typing that we eventually pass
through to the child component in
this case, so we can actually say,
Spread the rest of
the properties in there,
not if we don't write regular JavaScript.
Cool, and so I can pass those in as
well and because they're the same type,
TypeScript is all okay with it.
It's like, if you're guaranteeing
that this style object is okay,
then I will let you use it in React
component where it's expecting that style
object as well, and
both of those just kind of work.
So the kind of answer again,
which I have written out here,
Is we do want React.React(node).
The rest of these don't really
work the way we think they do.
And so sometimes,
there is a little nuance there.
But the props with children
is usually your answer,
cuz you could write that yourself, right.
If you hover over it, you can see it's
got a very simple implementation.
You could take a look,
you could figure it out, but
it is there as a utility method for you.
And I like the help, I'm here for it.
Cool, so
as we saw props with children, and
we're gonna use this a little bit later.
There is component props and
component parts without ref and with ref.
The ref is in React 18, I think,
we had forwarded refs possibly
a little earlier than that.
And so whether or
not you wanna actually define that,
I tend to use without ref until I
know I need to pass a ref through,
cuz I just want the simplest
possible solution.
But this will actually be all of the props
from just a regular HTML button in this
case, so you can pass it
the name of any HTML string,
which includes children in this case, too.
And the cool part is you
can pass them all through.
Previously, you could actually in
React 17, you could say like, hey,
if this is a React.component or
functional component,
and children was implicitly included
in there, that was removed.
There is a very long article for
the proposal and the change,
explaining all the reasons why,
that I am not going to, somewhat academic.
It's there linked for
your own interest on the rationale.
But it kind of gets into some of the
nuances of how the amount of TypeScript
that we definitely need to build our apps
is different from the amount that you need
to build the entire type system for
React or style components or
something along those lines.
But there is a lot written out there.
If, at the end of our time together,
you're like, yes,
I would like to dive deeper, I've included
some links towards the end, awesome.
>> Excuse me.
>> Yep.
>> Quick question.
There you hard coded the button
as a type and the generic,
where without the ref thing,
I was curious if there's a better way cuz
technically that's still,
we're trying to be super type safe.
The button is a string,
we might make a typo.
Is there button prompts or something?
>> So this button under the hood, let's
see, let's pull one out and take a look.
Let's learn it,
let's follow my own advice, right?
So let's actually grab this real quick
cuz we don't even need to use it.
So it looks like it's just a string, but
one of things we're actually
gonna see in a little bit is, and
I think you pointed this out earlier,
with types I can have unions between them.
So under the hood, for instance, if I
do make a typo, I get yelled at, right.
And we'll actually see a little of how
this works when we make a reducer actions
in a little bit.
But if I look under the hood, we can
see that component props without ref,
that generic extends element type,
keep going, right.
Element type tries to figure out whether
it's an actual another React component or
if it's one of the ones that's just
an intrinsic element HTML element and JSX,
keep going.
And you can see that it's actually using
the key of just every valid HTML element,
so it's gotta be one of these keys.
So even though it looks like a string,
it is a limited set of strings so
you can pass it.